# What is Infrastructure as Code
## The problem with Manual configuration
Manually configuring cloud infrastructure allows you to easily start using new services to quickly prototype architectures, however it comes with many downsides.
- It's easy to mis-configure a service through human error
- It's hard to manage the expected state o the configuration for compliance
- It's hard to transfer configuration knowledge to other team members
- It can be more difficult to replicate

## Infrastructure as code (**IaC**)
You write a configuration script to **automate** creating, updating or destroying cloud infrastructure>
- IaC is a **blueprint** of your infrastructure
- IaC allows you to **easily share, version or inventory** your cloud infrastructure

# Popular IaC tools

## Declarative
- What you see is what you get. *Explicit
- More verbose, but zero chance of mis-configuration
- Uses scripting languages eg. JSON, YAML, XML
- **Azure** uses **ARM(Azure Resource Manager) templates** and **Azure Blueprints**
- **AWS** uses **CloudFormation
- **GCP** uses **Cloud Deployment Manager**
- **Terraform** is also declarative and supports many cloud and on-premise providers.
- Declarative IaC tends to be better for System administrators or people not used to standard programming languages.
- This is better if you prefer to know everything that is happening and dont want anything left to change.

## Imperative
- You tell it what you want, and the rest is filled in. *Implicit*
- Less verbose, you could end up with mis-configuration
- **Imperative** can do more than **Declarative**
- Uses standard programming languages eg, **Python, Ruby, JavaScript**
- **AWS** has **AWS Cloud Development Kit**
- **Pulumi** is also Imperative and supports **AWS, Azure, GCP and K8s**
- Imperative IaC is normally better for users who have a programming background.
- Imperative IaC is better if you just want to quickly get things going and don't necessarily need to understand what's happening under the hood.

# Declarative +

Even though **Terraform** is declarative, it has imperative-like functionality.
## **YAML, JSON and XML** 
- These languages have limited, or no support, at all for imperative-like features.
- In some cases, you can add behaviour by extending the base language. E.g. CloudFormation Macros.

## HCL-ish (Terraform Language)
- Supports
	- Loops (For Each)
	- Dynamic Blocks
	- Locals

	- Complex Data Types
		- Maps, Collections

## **Ruby, Python, JavaScript etc...**
- Imperative features is the utility of the entire feature set of the programming language.

# Infrastructure Lifecycle

## What is Infrastructure Lifecycle?
A number of clearly defined and distinct work phases which are used by DevOps Engineers to **plan, design, build, test, deliver, maintain and retire infrastructure.

#### What are Day 0, Day 1 and Day 2?
Day 0-2 is a simplified way to describe phases of Infrastructure lifecycle
- Day 0 - Plan and Design
- Day 1 - Develop and Iterate
- Day 2 - is when we go live and maintain it
**IaC** usually starts on **Day 0** with the planning stage

## IaC advantages

#### Reliability
- **IaC** makes changes idempotent, consistent, repeatable, and predictable.
- No matter how many times you run the same **IaC** you will always end up with the same state that is expected.

#### Manageability
- Enable mutation via code
- revised, with minimal changes

#### Sensibility
- Avoid financial and reputational losses when considering government and military uses.

## Non-Idempotent vs Idempotent

####  Non-Idempotent(example)
- When I deploy my **IaC** Config file it will provision and launch 2 VMs
- When i update my **IaC** and deploy again, I may end up with 2 new VMs with a total of 4 VMs

#### Idempotent
- When I deploy my IaC config file it will provision and launch 2 VMs
- When I update my IaC and deploy again, it will udate teh VMs if cganged by modifying 